

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#Introduction)
- [Codes](#codes)
- [Data](#data)
- [Output](#output)

## Introduction

This study employs word embedding methods to quantify how news reports from different media outlets associate sentiment with political terms, aiming to uncover latent biases in their ideologically-oriented discourse. Building upon the work of (Rozado & al-Gharbi, 2022), the project analyzes a dataset of articles from 9 news outlets (3 left-leaning, 3 centrist, and 3 right-leaning) spanning from 2000 to 2019. The research explores four key aspects: issue ownership, political orientation sentiment associations, long-term temporal dynamics, and detailed sentiment associations. The findings reveal differences in the coverage of political issues by media outlets with varying ideological leanings, the tendency of left-leaning and right-leaning outlets to associate positive sentiment with their own ideological camp and negative sentiment with the opposing side, and the increasing polarization of media sentiment over time, particularly among left-leaning outlets. The detailed sentiment associations analysis provides a nuanced understanding of the specific types of negative associations linked to different political orientations. Despite challenges in constructing political issue axes, the project demonstrates the potential of using word embeddings and cultural axes to quantify and describe political biases in text data. The insights gained contribute to our understanding of the complex dynamics of media bias and polarization, laying the groundwork for further research in this area.



## Codes
The code used for this project is all saved in Python scripts or Jupyter notebooks under the `code` directory. 

## Data
- This project is based on the text data created by the study: Rozado, D., & al-Gharbi, M. (2022). Using word embeddings to probe sentiment associations of politically loaded terms in news and opinion articles from news media outlets. Journal of Computational Social Science, 5(1), 427–448. https://doi.org/10.1007/s42001-021-00130-y
- All the analysis scripts and the diachronic word embedding models built from each of the 47 news media outlets analyzed in this work are available in the following repository https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4797463.
- Due to the large file size, the Word2Vec model generated by this project will be stored on Google Drive. Please email zj117[at]georgetown.edu request if needed.

## Output
All figures generated during this replication process are placed in the `figures` directory. Especailly, the figures 4-7 were not inserted in the final report due to their large sizes.
